I am Kwame Nkrumah, born in 1909 in Nkroful,
Gold Coast, current-day Ghana. I am a Ghanaian
nationalist leader who led the Gold Coast’s drive
for independence from Britain and presided over
it's emergence as the new nation of Ghana. I
headed the country from independence in1957
until I was overthrown by a coup in 1966.
I grew up in a Roman Catholic environment and
became a teacher at Roman Catholic junior
schools. Increasingly drawn to politics,
I decided to pursue further studies in the
United States. I entered Lincoln University
and studied the literature of socialism.
I also immersed myself in political work
and became president of the African Students’
Organization of the United States and Canada.
I returned home in 1947 that was colonized by
Britain. I become United Gold Coast Convention
general secretary and began to create a mass
base for the new movement and the British briefly
arrested me and other party leaders. In 1950,
I initiated a campaign of “positive action,”
involving nonviolent protests, strikes, and
noncooperation with the British colonial
authorities. I was arrested numerous times,
but the Gold Coast’s first general election
led to the victory of my party, and I
was released from prison to become the
leader of the government business and later
became the prime minister of the Gold Coast.
My popularity in the country rose due to opening
new roads, schools, and health facilities and due
to the policy of Africanization that created
better career opportunities for Ghanaians.
In 1960, I concentrated my attention on
campaigning for the political unity of
Black Africa. My administration became involved
in magnificent development projects but due to
the widespread labor unrest and due to
the general strike in September 1961,
many of those projects failed
to reach their goals. In 1966,
the army in Ghana seized power and I sought asylum
in Guinea, to die later in Bucharest in 1972.
I am not African because I was born in
Africa but because Africa was born in me.
I hope my nation has met peace and prosperity
after all the struggles we went through.